So let's take this thing out for
a spin, let's try it out.
This is hard-earned, and
so let's try it out.
So now, [LAUGH] and
you got to ask yourself,
right, what's worse?
And if someone's got a better solution,
I'm here for it.
But as far as I know, this is the way.
So what we wanna do is say that,
we're gonna get rid of React.
And am I so lazy that I'm gonna
tempt auto complete here?
Look it, I got it, cool.
All right, so createContext,
we'll say it's ColorContextState.
Now, this one doesn't take a value.
And it does return me a different,
it returns to both these things.
So I have my own used context.
So far so good, except for
the fact that I got rid of some stuff.
This one should still now wrap index.tsx,
right?
That should still be the same,
one that we had before.
So now we have to use our own useContext,
let's see.
Try to have a more convenient way.
Yeah, I don't.
This is now we get to
the points of opinions, and
you can do whatever you want here.
I wanna pull this out of the array and
export it.
I want it to be easy,
I want it to be reliable.
I don't really wanna pull out the both
cuz I don't need both all the time.
So what I wanna say is I'll call
this one useColorContext, and
then export to useContext.
I don't ever have to think about what the
name was again, you could do the opposite,
I don't really care.
I personally have waffled on this one,
export const.
If you'd rather use your special one here
and keep the name inside, I don't care.
So we can do this.
We wanna get rid of the one
we pulled in from React.
And this one does not take an argument.
Cool, there are other versions of this,
I have to go hunt down.
This is now my bespoke one, I don't need
to pull in the context all over the place,
I don't need to pull in useContext.
I have a hook that's entirely encapsulated
with everything it needs to know,
I can use this one from
this point forward.
Yeah, I can pull the dispatch out.
And are we ready for the big reveal?
Does it work?
Did he do all that work to
find out that he has a bug?
Everything works, so there's no more as.
I did have to create abstraction,
I did have to wire up my own bespoke
version of createContext that
is special to throwing an error.
And I don't disagree that that
shouldn't be in the library,
cuz maybe you don't wanna throw an error,
maybe insisting.
And forcing that on every
JavaScript user is also a thing and
changing the API and a breaking change.
And if you've used React's Redux
toolkit or anything like that,
wrapping things with the more
specific parts of your
use case is a common pattern
that you'll see a lot.
You get to choose which one you like more.
If you're really against
the casting as an as, that is fine.
I think the reason to kinda talk about
this one is it does pull together many of
the subtle undercurrents of what
we've been talking about using React.
And I think the other powerful thing
that you can do if you're like, yo,
to useContext hooks, I'm gonna import
the wrong one and it's gonna break.
I love your thinking,
I agree, let's fix that.
So yeah, this is gonna be confusing.
A lot of the times,
I want to build my particularly my state
management code in my React app in a way
that allows me to change my mind, right?
What if I don't wanna use
a context API anymore?
What if I wanna switch to Redux?
Do I wanna redo everything in my app?
No, I don't.
So I could do stuff like,
useHexColor, right?
The name doesn't imply that
I'm using a context API,
it doesn't imply that I'm using Redux, it
doesn't imply any of these things, right?
That's gonna do, let's say, magically I
didn't export this one anyway, that this
becomes an internal implementation detail
that I never exposed to the world, right?
And so now I could say, This one.
Already, I'm confusing myself, right?
And what I will do in most of the apps
that I work on is create a series of these
that hide what I'm using, right?
Now, throughout my app,
I call useHexColor.
I can call,
Depending on how much I have going on,
if there's a whole bunch of things, I can
say I'll maybe make a use actions, right?
Or if it's like use update hexColor,
it'll just be a function that
dispatches the right action, right?
There's a bunch of ways
that you can do this, but
what I'll frequently do is create it.
I might choose to use this technique,
but I want to hide this
from everyone involved.
I think one of the roles under the hood,
it's electrons going through copper wires.
It's a levels of abstraction
to make things better.
One of my important rules when
maintaining a large code base,
that I like to enforce on my team, which
is sometimes you have to do dark things.
You put that in a file and
you encapsulate it in one place and
you do not let it spread
through our code base, right?
Sometimes an API is not what we want, and
we have to put an abstraction over it.
Okay, that lives in one place contained,
right?
It's like every horror
movie you've ever seen,
you put that in the dungeon somewhere.
You don't let the dragon out.
And so you can encapsulate a lot of this.
And if you look at useHexColor,
your hexColor is still a string,
which has bitten me once today,
but it's true.
The rest of my application is type save,
is aware of everything,
it's not string or something else, right?
Even the simplest version is to say
useDispatch, right, which will,
This looks like the one I was in libraries
that we can talk about later, right?
That's it, that's the type,
I will get dispatched out of there, right?
And then I can use it everywhere.
Everything we did is hidden.
It's sounds like I'm now juggling
two different createContexts,
two different useContexts,
or anything like that.
I can create it up in this file,
and then for the rest of my app,
I can just use dispatch or I can even
make more specific ones, right, and
have those available everywhere.
Use adjust color and it'll give
me the functions for doing that.
I use those throughout my app,
if I dramatically change my mind, right,
then I have the option to just change
my abstractions in this one place.
And the problem with TypeScript,
as long as I adhere to the same contract,
everything is just gonna work, right?
And so
it's one of the advantages that you get,
is a compiler is gonna run around
if you use these hooks everywhere.
And it's gonna confirm that if you swap
out this implementation for even the other
one, right, that original one, nothing
changes in the rest of your app, right?
If you swap out the context API for
Redux, nothing changes in your app.
If you swap out use state for use reducer,
nothing changes in your app, right?
And TypeScript will make sure
that you didn't make a boo boo,
almost immediately at lightning speed,
to make sure that everything works, right?
And you get all those abstractions for
free.